The concept of segmentation is very
simple, I think everyone understands
it and is, segmentation consists
of analyzing the total market
or your current customers that is
also done with your current customers
to identify segments that
are smaller groups that have
to have within each group
a few features, something
specific that helps you to adapt
your proposals, your messages,
etc., to each of those
groups, that there is
adaptation, that in this
consists.
But what happens is that everyone
understands this but almost
nobody segments well and why?
What do you have to be good at?
You have to know all the segmentation
variables that we will see later,
you have to know them all,
you have to incorporate
them all into your analysis.
What are the segmentation variables?
These are the perspectives
or criteria of analysis
that we use to study the market.
They are like those lupites, aren’t they?
You have a market or you have your
customers and you can study them from
many different perspectives,
because where they live, what they
want, what they feel, why they
buy you, etc.
These are the different
perspectives, criteria or
segmentation variables.
You have to know them all.
You have to keep in mind that
when you do what you do is
to introduce a segmentation
variable, because I have my target
market here and analyze it from
the perspective of geography,
the simplest.
For each segmentation variable,
you will get a few segments.
If you use geography, you will
find people living in the United
States, Madrid or Logroño.
Or if you are segmenting by neighborhoods,
then in each of the neighborhoods,
if you are a hairdressing
chain, for example.
So why do people do it
badly?
Why do companies not know how to
segment well?
Do the test.
Ask a businessman or an entrepreneur.
The information you provide and the information
you provide does not give you much information.
The common mistakes are two
that you shouldn’t make.
One is that people are usually
limited to the basic segmentation
variables.
So you ask yourself, what are your segments?
I have men and women
of this age, etc.
This is fine, you know, but you
can’t stay alone here.
There are a lot of things you are losing.
And there’s another, another common mistake
and is that people don’t make
the effort to keep segmenting
their customers especially.
When you learn to segment, that you’
re going to learn today and these
days, what you have to do is do it
continuously, all your life.
My current clients, I have to study
them again because there is something
that will be escaping me.
Each time we do this, we learn
a lot of things that allow
us to adapt our proposal,
sell more, evolve
the pitch of the commercials,
etc.
There are two mistakes.
That the solutions you know, the
solutions is that you know
all the segmentation
variables we will see now and
that you also be aware that
you have to do it all your life.
You have to be constantly using
those variables to study your
target market of your current
customers because you’ll go
learning and learning and learning.